In this video we will be discussing what are now called system targets.
System targets are very similar to what we used to call runlevels.

System targets (and runlevels) are a preconfigured state of system services
Some services would be started as part of that target and other services would be stopped

System targets generally reflect the level of functionality that is enabled.

System targets are controlled by the first initial process to start after booting called systemd 

The job of systemd is to control the startup and shutdown of all of the other processes on the system.

Processes like a file system are hierarchical. That is there is a root process that starts other processes(services) which then may start their own child processes.
systemd is the original parent process

We uses the systemctl command to control systemd

The older initial process was called initd. It served a similar purpose but was less powerfull than the newer systemd that replaced it.

When we were using initd we referred to these preconfigured states of system services as runlevels.


Lets examine the most commonly used system targets and their similar older initd runlevels.

Refer to slide

Our system is configured with a default target to be used at boot time
But we can change our current target and also change the default boot target

In centos1
ps -ef | less

PID 1 systemd 

sudo systemctl get-default

in centos3

sudo systemctl get-default

Why are they different?

We can change the current target 

in centos1 
sudo systemctl isolate multiuser.target

Shuts down the graphical user interface services (X11)

Reboot centos1
sudo systemctl isolate reboot.target

Reboots into graphical.target (default)

To change the default target (boot target)

sudo systemctl set-default multi-user.target

reboot centos1
sudo systemctl isolate reboot.target

Boots into text based target (No GUI)

sudo systemctl isolate graphical.target
Start GUI
To change default startup target back to graphical
sudo systemctl set-default graphical.target


On centos3 

sudo systemctl isolate graphical.target

No GUI installed





















